NOTES

I have tried to leave out of these hour counts the time spent researching and
only include time spent building. There is some overlap however.

Estimated hours spend building spikes before this dev journal: 4.5 hours



7/7/18
This is the first entry in my dev notes but not the first day of development.
Previous to today I have built two mockups/spikes in html/css not using angular.
Previous to joining this program (around 2013 or 2014) I played around with
angularJS and made some toy websites. Over the past week I found some old
articles on angularJS I had used to learn and refreshed my memory. Today,
however, I finally started diving into the latest version of Angular. I have
found it to be very different. Its still based around modules and components.
It still has the concepts of directives routing and services. But now it uses
a cli tool to build everything (it might have in the v 1 and I just never used
it somehow). I have made a basic app and plan to adapt my html/css mockups into
it.

time spent today playing with Angular to try and get up to speed: 1 hours (6
hours of research but only 1 real hour of building)



7/8/18
Today I added 1 page to the angular mockup. It is a simple welcome page with a
button. I did not have time today to do any more. Tuesday I hope to add the 1
page from one of the original mockups  and a few more pages(that I made in
html/css).

time spent today adding a competent and page to the site: 3.5 hours



7/10/18
My wife had surgery yesterday so I did not get to get on here much today. I did
spend some time tinkering with the routing module and figuring out how to add
automatic routing for navigating the site. It was similar to the old way but a
bit different.

no hours spent building only research



7/11/18
Today I added the page from the original mockup and 2 more pages. The pages on
the site are now a welcome page, a home page (where the form is), a waiting page
(that is jus a mockup of what will actually happen), and a results page (that
currently has no results). Originally I planned to use sass with the sass
syntax but today I decided to use the scss syntax so before I built the three
pages I scrapped my test project and created a new one. This meant that I must
also rebuild the welcome page but that was mostly copy and paste from the
defunct project version. At our meeting we discussed moving the project from
Chris’s github to a organization github. will do that tomorrow.

I will give a small rundown of what all this entailed. a few days ago I
installed angular and the angular cli (command line tool). using the command
line tool I entered the command ‘ng new test2 —style=scss —routing’. This
builds a new project that uses scss for styling and has basic routing already
set up. I chose to write the rest of the routing manually as I went on. to
build a new module I called ‘ng generate component <pagename>’.

I could have added the —routing to this command to automatically do the routing
but to learn more about the routing I chose not to. once the components are in
place they have to be added to the router by including the component and then
placing a router object inside of the routes class constructor. then each
component must have its html and css edited. This can be done in the
component.ts file but its better to make component.html and component.scss
files. At that point its just simple html/css building.

time spent building out the site today: 6 hours (with several more hours of research and meeting)



7/12/18
Today I made a new github account and created a fresh repo. I built a new
angular project and added all of the express, python-shell, and other third
party dependancies we need for the project. I then moved all of the work I had
done in my test2 project into the ParrotCrawler project and updated the name in
the index.html. I then tried to push this to the new repo and ran into fast
forward issues because I had not cloned the new repo before building the new
project. So because of this I had to clone a new repo and move everything from
my locally created one over before pushing. (I deleted the bad local repo after
doing this). I learned something about setting up a git at least. I did not get
to spend any time working on the site other than this.

time spent setting up new github repo: 3 hours



7/13/18
Added a new catch all route that sends users to a parrot themed 404 page. read
many articles about routing animations and still only barely get it. I did
figure it out enough to create a routing animation that slides each page up and
brings a new page from the bottom. I works perfect in chrome a little iffy on
the waiting page for safari. Still need to test with other browsers but that can
wait. I need to read up on polyfills before I get to far into making it
compatible with all the browsers and screen sizes. otherwise I will just end up
writing way more css then I need to. A problem I ran into was that the zooms
div on the results page was not animating correctly. Because it has to be set
with display: absolute to render in the bottom right corner it was not moving
with the rest of the page. when leaving the page it was jumping down to just
above the next page so as the page scrolled the view passed it floating alone
in space. This was because I was using bottom: 30px instead of top: 300px. I
found that a better solution was top: 75vh since that is reactive to the screen
size. I have tried to avoid using px in my css except in some cases where it
would make little difference.

Before I solved the zooms div problem I went down an animations rabbit hole
looking for a solution. I wanted to animate the zooms div from tiny to correctly
sized tin order to make it look like it grew into existence instead of just
popping in. So I read up on animateChild() but could not ever get it to work.
Its a moot point now because I found a good looking fix using css but I might
return to this if I get time.

hours spent tinkering today: 6 hours (not including reading and meeting)
